---
title: "Term 2 Week 11"
categories: lesson
layout: post
---

Γεια σας! Welcome to the last lesson of semester 1!

## VCE

Congratulations on completing units 1/3! The time has come to begin preparing
for the exams in October and November.

I would suggest the following for exam preparation:

- **Ideal** Complete 1 past exam per fortnight (2.5 hours).
- **Good** Complete a listening, reading and essay component of an exam per
fortnight (70 minutes).
- **Okay** Complete a listening, reading or writing task every week, rotating
weekly. Otherwise, you can focus on your weakest skill (20 - 40 minutes).

My advice is to be strict with suggested times. I am very happy to mark your
essays as you write them, please send them through to me. You have a few weeks
over the holidays to make a good start with some exams.

I have made [this post](/vsl-greek/sac3/index.html) about SAC 3, which will be
outcome 2. Please read this information carefully so you can prepare. This
should overlap with your exam preparation as well, since the tasks will be
listening and reading comprehension.

For this week, I would like us to make a start on exam preparation together. We
will work through the practice exam given in [workset
15](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekUnit3WB2WS15.pdf) from the VSL distance material.

1. **Listening Comprehension** Complete the listening comprehension exercises
   for texts 1, 2 and 3. You will need [this audio
   file](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekUnit3WB2WS15_Track_09_Reduced.mp3), which
   contains all of the audio segments.
2. **Reading Comprehension** Complete the reading comprehension exercises for
   texts 4 and 5.
3. **Writing** Write one of the essays given in section 3.
5. **Reflection** At the end of the workset is a reflection on the semester.
   Please fill this out and send it through or email your responses to me
   directly.
6. **Review** Use the examiner's report to mark the exam. Submit your essays at
   [this link](https://www.dropbox.com/request/v8NXlhuAfQYjkefrmFdy) and I will
   mark them. From this I can give you a mark for the exam.

## Years 9 and 10

Today we will start a new topic: στην αγορά, "at the market". We will work from
[workset 13](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekYr9WB2WS13.pdf).

1. **Revision: the imperative** Complete the revision exercise 1 in the
   workset.
2. **Grammar: Simple future** Review the formation of the simple future tense.
   Think about how this is related to the simple past tense we discussed last
   week. Complete exercises 2 and 3 in the workset.
3. **Vocabulary** Review the market-related vocabulary on page 5, listen and
   repeat the words using [this audio
   file](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekYr9WB2WS13Track08.mp3). Use this to complete
   exercise 5.
4. **Large numbers and Greek numerals** In class we will discuss large numbers
   in Greek, along with their Greek numerals. Use these notes and the
   information provided in the workset to complete exercise 6.
5. **Reading comprehension** Read dialogue on page 12 carefully and answer the
   questions in exercise 7 *in Greek*.
6. **Listening comprehension** Use [this audio
   file](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekYr9WB2WS13Track09.mp3) to complete exercise 8.
7. **Writing task** Είσαι σε ένα ελληνικό παντοπωλείο και θέλεις να αγοράσεις 5
   ελληνικά προϊόντα. Γράψε τον διάλογο με τον υπάλληλο του καταστήματος στα
   ελληνικά (100 λέξεις).

   You are in a Greek grocery store and you want to buy 5 Greek
   products. Write a dialogue with he shop assistant in Greek (100
           words).
8. **Reflection** At the end of the workset there are three
   self-reflection questions. Please answer these and send through
   your answers to me. You can just write them in English to me in an
   email.
9. **Submit** your writing task [at this
   link](https://www.dropbox.com/request/mZCiVKm7zDtsGlYrJkTM).
