---
title: "Term 2 Week 9"
categories: lesson
layout: post
---

Γεια σας! Despite initial hopes of returning to face-to-face learning this week,
following guidance from the Victorian Department of Education we will be
continuing with online lessons for the rest of the term.

## VCE

This week we are continuing with our topic on the environment. We will be mainly
working from the VSL distance material again. We are working towards our next
SAC, which will be about synthesising information from three or more texts and
writing a high-level piece of work using these.

The first set of materials relevant to the environment is [workset
12](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekUnit3WB2WS12.pdf), the second is [workset
14](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekUnit3WB2WS14.pdf), which I will refer to in your
tasks below. Please disregard comments in the worksets about SACs.

1. **Listening Comprehension** Complete the listening comprehension exercises 1
   and 2 in workset 12. You will need these two audio files: [exercise
   1](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekUnit3WB2WS12_05.mp3), [exercise
   2](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekUnit3WB2WS12_06.mp3).
2. **Discussion: Environmental posters** Look at the posters on pages 2 and 3 of
   workset 14, write down some responses to the relevant questions, we will
   discuss these in class. Can you come up with a rhyming slogan communicating
   the message of the three posters in exercise 2?
3. **Discussion: The myth of King Midas** Watch
   [this](https://youtu.be/8T7FsB8dLuo) children's version of the myth, and
   [this one](https://youtu.be/nn8YGPZdCvA) meant for an older audience. In what
   ways are they similar/different? Why might this be the case? Write down some
   points in Greek (at least four), we will discuss these in class.
4. **Writing task: Plastic pollution** Watch [this
   video](https://youtu.be/RS7IzU2VJIQ) on plastic pollution. The video is in
   English, but enabling Greek subtitles will help with vocabulary. Write a few
   paragraphs (approx. 150 - 200 words) in Greek about the analogy made between
   the mythical figure Midas (Μίδας) and plastic use. We will discuss this in
   class.
5. **Written response** Complete exercise 3 in Workset 14, read the essay and
   answer the questions in Greek.
6. **Grammar** This topic contains many difficult neuter noun declensions. Study
   these on page 13 of workset 14 and complete exercise 7.
7. Submit your work for steps 4 and 5 at [this
   link](https://www.dropbox.com/request/QUq8gdwarLuUmtjuXh6y).

## Years 9 and 10

Today I want to do a small unit on cooking and recipes. We will be working
mainly from chapter 13 in the GCSE I textbook and workbook.

1. **Reading** Read the text on the first page of chapter 13 in the textbook: η συνταγή της
   γιαγιάς. Answer the questions in box A on the next page.
2. **Listening Comprehension** Complete the listening comprehension exercise ΣΤ
   in the workbook. You will need [this audio
   file](/vsl-greek/assets/recipes.mp3). Feel free to pause it and listen to it
   as many times as you need.
3. **Reading Comprehension** Complete exercise 7 in [distance workset
   13](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekYr9WB2WS13.pdf). Despite the instructions, I would
   like you to read the dialogue and answer the questions **in English**.
4. **Grammar: genitive singular** Use the notes from class to complete exercise
   Z in the workbook chapter. You need to fill in the gaps with the correct
   genitive form of the noun.
5. **Writing** Complete exercise H in the workbook chapter. A friend is asking
   you for a recipe of a traditional Greek dish. In about 70-100 words write out
   the recipe in Greek, modelling your piece of writing on the text you read in
   step 1. Include the name of the dish, the ingredients (υλικά) and your method
   (εκτέλεση). If you are stuck for ideas, you will find plenty
   [here](https://www.youtube.com/user/akispetretzikis).
6. Submit your work for the above steps [at this
   link](https://www.dropbox.com/request/mZCiVKm7zDtsGlYrJkTM) before next week.
