---
title: "Term 2 Week 3"
categories: lesson
layout: post
---

Hey everyone!

Welcome to the second online-learning lesson. As usual, check out your year
level's tasks for the week below. This evening we will discuss the work from
last week and I'll talk you through the work below.

## VCE

**Speech text type** I want to cover the speech text type this week as a proxy
for persuasive writing and speaking in Greek. This is in part preparation for
our next SAC, for which there is more information in [this
post](/vsl-greek/sac2/index.html). The tasks here are:
1. Watch the video and read the transcribed text of the speech from [this
   post](/vsl-greek/mystakidis/index.html). The first three paragraphs are the
   most relevant. I've glossed some vocabulary that might be difficult, and
   encourage you to incorporate some of the style he uses into your own
   persuasive writing. The language is at a high level, please take your time
   and listen to the speech a number of times following the text with a
   dictionary. He plays two pieces of ρεμπέτικα as well.
2. Read through the text-type features [from this
   post](/vsl-greek/connecting-words/index.html) for more vocabulary and style
   pointers as well as some explanatory videos on writing in Greek.
3. Summarise Mystakidis' three questions (from the video in step 1) and his
   personal responses in two or three paragraphs *in English*.
4. Drawing from the text-type features (step 2) and the vocabulary and style of
   Mystakidis' speech (step 1), write a persuasive essay *in Greek* arguing for
   or against the idea that *tradition should be respected*. Mystakidis'
   discussion was in the context of music, but yours can be more general. Take
   it where you like. Your essay can incorporate your own answers to his three
   questions, for example. As usual, I'm looking for 200-300 words here.
   (Question: What was the word limit on the speech from the 2020 sample exam?)
5. Submit your work for steps 3 and 4 electronically
   [here](https://www.dropbox.com/request/cgfkyHepqBdqtDIEMPyq) before 4:00 PM
   on Thursday May 7.

## Years 9 and 10

We are working towards our oral test with some conversational technique today.
Remember this will be a conversation about you, and I will pretend that I'm
meeting you for the first time, so we will need to make introductions in Greek.
The test will be in three weeks' time.

1. **Listening comprehension** Using [this audio
   file](/vsl-greek/assets/GCSE1_2B.mp3) complete the listening comprehension
   exercise B from Μάθημα 2 of the GCSE I workbook. Listen to the audio as many
   times as you like to complete the exercise. We will discuss it next week in
   class. Please email me your answers before next class.
2. **Conversational technique: introductions** Read the two conversations on
   page 18 (chapter 3) of the GCSE I textbook. Answer the questions in the A
   box on the next page. Take note of the words you needed to look up in the
   dictionary. Then, write out your own dialogue in preparation for our
   conversation. How will you introduce yourself? Use the stimulus on page 21
   in the textbook to think about how you might introduce a friend to me. Write
   this out, we will discuss it next week.
3. **Definite and indefinite articles** [Watch this
   video](https://youtu.be/2lwgWZGokjQ) on definite and indefinite articles in
   Greek. Complete exercises Β, Γ and Δ in chapter 3 of the GCSE I workbook. For
   exercise Δ, you may need to use the table at the end of chapter 2 in the
   textbook.
