---
title: "Term 2 Week 7"
categories: lesson
layout: post
---

Γεια σας! Welcome to another week of online Greek school. The information I have
is that we will be resuming face-to-face lessons at Doncaster Secondary on June
11, which is two weeks away. I'll send through a letter from VSL soon explaining
this in more detail. For the VCE students, this means we will be able to do our
last SAC for the semester at school as usual.

Another important note: there is no class next week for the Queen's Birthday
holiday.

## VCE

For this week are continuing with our topic on the environment. We will be
working from the VSL distance material, since for the next two weeks we will
still be doing lessons online. The first set of materials relevant to the
environment is [workset 11](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekUnit3WB2WS11.pdf), which I
will refer to in your tasks below.

1. I have completed your task 1 from last week and compiled some of the
   vocabulary at [this post](/vsl-greek/environment/index.html). Take a look and
   refer back to it for this and future lessons, I will add to it as we learn
   more about the environment.
2. Complete exercise 2 from workset 11. Answer the questions in Greek.
3. Use [this audio file](/vsl-greek/assets/environ_audio.mp3) to complete
   exercise 4, answer the questions in English.
4. Read the letter on page 8 (exercise 5) and answer the question that follows
   in Greek.
5. Complete the reading comprehension tasks on pages 6-9 of the [2013 VCE Greek
   exam](https://www.vcaa.vic.edu.au/Documents/exams/greek/2013/2013greek-cpr-w.pdf).
6. Write an imaginative children's story in Greek based on [this
   image](https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/pixar/images/5/5e/WALL-E_plant1.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20111229205206).
   Take it wherever you like. I'm looking for around 250-300 words.
7. Submit your work for steps 2-6 at [this
   link](https://www.dropbox.com/request/jhpisar4KCLwCqKgXJ6l).
8. For a challenge, watch [this video](https://youtu.be/Oe94Ua_jG5I) on the
   scientific evidence for human-caused climate change. Of course the presenter
   speaks quickly and the content is high level, but the video is entertaining
   and we have covered many of the difficult vocabulary items in class already.

## Years 9 and 10

Today we are continuing with our discussion of school life, we will wrap up the
topic this week with a discussion of school in ancient Greece.

1. Complete both parts α and β of exercise 6 of [workset
   11](/vsl-greek/assets/GreekYr9WB2WS11.pdf),
2. Read the text on page 19 and write down at least three differences between
   schooling in ancient Greece and schooling in modern Australia on the previous
   page. This should be done in Greek. Next week we will discuss this text in
   Greek, so make some notes about it and review them before next class.
3. Look at the cartoon at the top of page 18. Translate the text into English
   and discuss in Greek in a couple of sentences what is odd about it.
4. Complete exercise 9 from the same workset (on page 17). You need to write a
   letter to a friend telling him/her about your school life. Don't forget to
   include the letter structure we had discussed in class a while ago: include
   greetings, questions, the body of your letter and a farewell. This should be
   around 100-200 words.
5. Submit your work for the above steps [at this
   link](https://www.dropbox.com/request/mZCiVKm7zDtsGlYrJkTM) before next week.
