---
title: "Xenophon Zolotas – Speech"
categories: culture
layout: post
---

Kyrie,

It is Zeus’ anathema on our epoch and the heresy of our economic method and
policies that we should agonize the Skylla of nomismatic plethora and the
Charybdis of economic anaemia.

It is not my idiosyncracy to be ironic or sarcastic but my diagnosis would be
that politicians are rather cryptoplethorists. Although they emphatically
stigmatize nomismatic plethora, they energize it through their tactics and
practices. Our policies should be based more on economic and less on political
criteria. Our gnomon has to be a metron between economic strategic and
philanthropic scopes.

In an epoch characterized by monopolies, oligopolies, monopolistic antagonism
and polymorphous inelasticities, our policies have to be more orthological, but
this should not be metamorphosed into plethorophobia, which is endemic among
academic economists.

Nomismatic symmetry should not antagonize economic acme. A greater harmonization
between the practices of the economic and nomismatic archons is basic.

Parallel to this we have to synchronize and harmonize more and more our economic
and nomismatic policies panethnically. These scopes are more practicable now,
when the prognostics of the political end economic barometer are halcyonic.

The history of our didimus organization on this sphere has been didactic and
their gnostic practices will always be a tonic to the polyonymous and
idiomorphous ethnical economies. The genesis of the programmed organization will
dynamize these policies.

Therefore, I sympathize, although not without criticism one or two themes with
the apostles and the hierarchy of our organs in their zeal to program orthodox
economic and nomismatic policies.

I apologize for having tyranized you with my Hellenic phraseology. In my
epilogue I emphasize my eulogy to the philoxenous aytochtons of this
cosmopolitan metropolis and my encomium to you Kyrie, the stenographers.
