---
title: "Term 2 Week 6"
categories: lesson
layout: post
---

Hey everyone! Today we have our SAC (for the VCE students) and spoken test (for
the 9s and 10s). Please join the Zoom call as usual and stay in the waiting room
until I bring you into the main room for the oral. Please stay by your computer
while you are in the waiting room so that we are ready to start when you enter.

I will be recording our Zoom call for marking purposes, please keep this in
mind. (Even if we were doing the SAC in person this would be the case.) Please
make sure you understand the topic of our discussion. For the VCE students, this
is stated at [this post](/vsl-greek/sac2/index.html), while for the year 9s and
10s it will be a general conversation about your personal and school life.

Because we will be doing the SAC, we won't have time to go through last week's
work and talk about the work for this week. I've tried to make it as
self-explanatory as possible for you all.

## VCE

I want to give you a head start on our new topic this week: το περιβάλλον (the environment). We will do that by reading and working through chapter 23 in the textbook and workbook. For the workbook exercises, either print out the workbook chapter, write on it, then scan it and send it to me, or annotate the pdf on your computer and send that to me.

1. Read through chapter 23 in the GCSE II book Αγάπη για το περιβάλλον. Note
   down the vocabulary and key phrases for the topic, translate them, read them
   aloud and try and commit them to memory (flash cards are good here). This
   vocabulary is difficult and will be useful to you in your next SAC (and
           potentially for the exam).

2. Complete the tasks in the workbook for the corresponding chapter. Instructions for each section in English are below:
   - **Α.** Add the dot point words to the correct column.
   - **Β.** Whad do we need to do to protect the environment? Match the terms in the box with those listed in 1-7.
   - **Γ.** The phrases listed refer to environmental problems and measures that can be taken to protect those environments. Write the phrases in the correct list.
   - **Δ.** The phrases listed refer to environment problems and measures that can be taken to protect those environments. Match the phrases with those below.
   - **Ε.** Match the dot point phrases with those below and use them to write sentences.
   - **ΣΤ.** Look at the images and describe in 1-2 sentences what the environmental issue is.
   - **Ζ.** Use [this audio file]() and complete the listening task.
   - **Η.** Fill the gaps with the correct form of the noun [correct number (singular/plural) and correct case (Nom/Gen/Acc/Voc)]. You will need to refer to the grammar lesson we did early in first term, or else the end of chapter 23 in the textbook and the list of noun paradigms on the website.
   - **Θ.** Fill the gaps with the correct articles, e.g. ο, η, το, του, της, του, etc.
   - **Ι.** Read the announcement and write a short letter (up to 150 words) letting Mr. Athanasiou know that you woud like to take part in the activity. Include answers to the questions listed in the blue box.

3. **Revision to oral exam** VCAA has published their new oral exam specifications, procedures and advice on their website. The link is [here](https://www.vcaa.vic.edu.au/assessment/vce-assessment/past-examinations/Pages/Greek.aspx). There are a bunch of videos walking you through what the oral will be like, please watch these.

## Years 9 and 10

We are continuing with our discussion of school life. Complete the exercises
below from [workset 11]():
1. **Grammar** From [our discussion in class]() and reading the notes on page
   11.2 in the workset on imperatives (commands), complete exercises 2 and 3.
2. **School life vocabulary** Listen to [this track]() and read along with the
   vocabulary on page 6 of the workset. Refer back to this vocabulary
     throughout the lesson. Use it to help you with exercise 5, we will go
     through your answers to this next week.
3. **Comprehension** Complete exercises 7 and 8 (you will need [this audio file] for exercise 8).
4. **Submit** your work for steps 1 and 3 at [this link]() before next lesson.
