---
title: "SAC 2"
categories: assessment
layout: post
---

# SAC 1: Outcome 1

Our second SAC will be outcome 1. This represents 40% of your internal unit 1/3
mark. The task will be a three- to four-minute role-playing discussion with me
in Greek. It will be slightly different for the year 11s and year 12s:

- **Year 12s** The role-play will focus on negotiating a solution to a personal
  issue. I have chosen the following role play: 
  
  > You are a student just about to finish year 12. You have decided that you
  > want to take a year off before going to university to travel. I, your
  > parent, disagree with this idea. You need to try and convince me to let you
  > go with sound arguments, answers to my concerns and possibly a compromise.

- **Year 11s** The role-play will be an informative conversation, rather than a
  disagreement. I have chosen the following role play:
  
  > You are a student just about to finish year 11. You are thinking about the
  > idea of taking a year off after you finish year 12 to travel and want to
  > warm me, your parent, up to the idea. I have never heard of a gap-year
  > before. You need to explain the concept to me and hold an informative
  > conversation around the topic.

The SAC will take place on **Thursday May 21** during our usual Zoom lesson time. It
will happen one-on-one in a private Zoom call. I'll organise a specific meeting
time with each of you closer to the date. I will record that private Zoom call
on my end for marking purposes.
